reunited at last the mother sees her
chick for the first time she's keen to
start parenting but the father needs
persuading to surrender the chick he's
been caring for all winter he must now
put his chick at risk in these
temperatures it could freeze in seconds
the male will have to let go
eventually the transfer to the mother is
safely made
[Music]
the chicks grow quickly on a diet of
fish and squid
[Music]
soon they're keen to explore their
always with mother in terror
this chick is less fortunate its mother
has not returned to claim it another
orphan is searching for a new family but
this female already has a of her
own
some orphans receive too much mothering
from penguins whose own chicks have not
survived the urge to parent is so strong
that they will compete with one another
to adopt any chick they find many of
these squabbles end in tragedy as the
portrait is trampled to death
those chicks that do have parents
quickly learn survival skills even in
spring they must huddle together for
warmth
just as their fathers did in the depths
of winter
a group of chicks has got lost in the
blizzard cold and disorientated they
search for the colony
[Music]
it will not be long before the storm
claims its first victims
[Music]
by early summer the chicks are
surprisingly well-developed
and now look ready to take on the world
those that survive their first year have
the best possible start in life thanks
to the extraordinary hardships endured
by their parents parents who battled
with the Antarctic winter and one